Integrate DFU target SMP (#12073)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/cellular/lwm2m_client/fota_external_mcu.rst

.. _lwm2m_client_fota_external_mcu:

Evaluating LwM2M Advanced Firmware Update for external MCU
##########################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> This page describes how to evaluate SMP/MCUmgr based FOTA using LwM2M with Advanced Firmware Update object.

Author: Minor edit to your proposal:

This page describes how to evaluate FOTA based on serial SMP and MCUmgr using LwM2M with Advanced Firmware Update object.

+-------------+-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Sample support firmware update from nrf9160DK to nRF52840 MCU. External Fota SMP adds new instance to Advanced Fota object and registers that to Device management server.

Configuration
-------------

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_SMP_CLIENT_FOTA_EXTERNAL` - Enable external SMP FOTA client
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_SMP_SERVER_RECOVERY_MODE` - Enable Reset line to activate MCUBoot recovery.

Sample supports nRF9160DK UART2 connection to onboard nRF52840 with or withour MCUBoot recovery mode.
nRF9160 device needs to enable UART2 on the Devicetree and Recovery mode overlay files.

* :file:`overlay-mcumgr_client.conf` Define configuration for External Fota client
  This requires :file:`nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay` devicetree extra configuration.
* :file:`overlay-mcumgr_reset.conf` Enable MCUBoot recovery mode
  This requires :file:`nrf9160dk_recovery.overlay` devicetree extra configuration.

For external Fota feature following overlay configurations needs to be activated as well:
* :file:`overlay-adv-firmware.conf` - Enables experimental Advanced Firmware Update object.

> * :file:`overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf` - Enables experimental Advanced Firmware Update object.

Author: Ah No that is copy paste issue :(

Also one of the Coiote Device Management`_ server configuration is required:
* :file:`overlay-avsystem.conf` - Uses `Coiote Device Management`_ server
* :file:`overlay-avsystem-bootstrap.conf` - Uses Coiote in bootstrap mode.

Build for MCUBoot recovery mode with Bootstrap
----------------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer: You need an introductory text even if the heading says it all (for all of these sections). Something like:

"To build for MCUBoot recovery mode with bootstrap, use the following command:"

And I believe you do not need to capitalize bootstrap.

.. code-block:: console

   west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf; overlay-mcumgr_reset.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay;nrf9160dk_recovery.overlay"

Build for generic MCUmgr client with Bootstrap
----------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: console

   west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem-bootstrap.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay"

Build for generic MCUmgr client without Bootstrap
-------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: console

   west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay"

nRF52840 configuration
======================

> :ref:`smp_svr` have reference implementation that uses MCUBoot recovery mode or serial SMP server mode to allow image update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :ref:`smp_svr` sample is a reference implementation that uses MCUBoot recovery mode or serial SMP server mode to allow image update.
```

> Build
> -----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building
********
```

> To build with MCUBoot recovery mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build with the sample for MCUBoot recovery mode, use the following command:
```

.. code-block:: console

   west build --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf52840 -- -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE:="nrf9160dk_nrf52840_recovery.overlay"

> To build with Native serial MCUMgr server for UART1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build with the sample for native serial MCUMgr server for UART1, use the following command:
```

.. code-block:: console

   west build --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf52840 -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-serial.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE:="nrf9160dk_nrf52840_mcumgr_srv.overlay"

> Verify image update
> ===================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verifying image update
======================
```

> Following flow uses generic MCUmgr client mode and Coiote without bootstrap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following flow uses generic MCUmgr client mode and Coiote without bootstrap.
```

#. To set up the script, you must set the username and password that you used in AVSystem's Coiote Device Management server as the environment variables.

   .. code-block:: console

      # Setup phase
      export COIOTE_PASSWD='my-password'
      export COIOTE_USER='my-username'

> #. Build and flash nRF52840 smp_svr sample:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Build the :ref:`smp_svr` sample and flash it to the nRF9160 DK:

   Make sure the **PROG/DEBUG** switch is set to the **nRF52**.
```

   Please flip the DK board's PROG/DEBUG switch to nRF52 position.

   .. code-block:: console

      cd samples/cellular/smp_svr/
      west build --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf52840 -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-serial.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE:="nrf9160dk_nrf52840_mcumgr_srv.overlay"
      west flash --erase

#. Open the :file:`src/prj.conf` file.

#. Change :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMAGE_VERSION` to ``1.1.0``.

> #. Rebuild the sample and copy binary to lwm2m_client sample folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Rebuild the sample and copy binary to the :file:`lwm2m_client` folder:
```

   .. code-block:: console

      west build
      cp build/zephyr/app_update.bin ../lwm2m_client/app_update52.bin
      cd ..

> #. Open terminal connection for nRF52840 (VCOM1) at linux /dev/ttyACM1 and call `mcuboot` command on the shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Open a terminal connection for the nRF52840 SoC (VCOM1), in Linux ``/dev/ttyACM1``, and call the ``mcuboot`` command on the shell.
```

   .. code-block:: console

      uart:~$ mcuboot
      swap type: none
      confirmed: 1

      primary area (2):
         version: 1.0.0+0
         image size: 70136
         magic: unset
         swap type: none
         copy done: unset
         image ok: unset

      failed to read secondary area (5) header: -5
      uart:~$

> #. Register your nRF9160 device with the Coiote Device management server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Register your nRF9160 DK with the Coiote Device management server.
```

> #. Build and flash lwm2m_client sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Build and flash the :ref:`lwm2m_client` sample:
```

>    Please flip the DK board's PROG/DEBUG switch to nRF91 position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Make sure the **PROG/DEBUG** switch is set to **nRF91**.
```

   .. code-block:: console

      cd lwm2m_client/
      west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay"
      west flash --erase

> #. Wait for the device registration to be complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Wait for the device registration to complete.
```

> #. nRF52840 firmware by using the :file:`/scripts/fota.py` script.

Reviewer: Something seems to be missing here.
Maybe something like:

"Use the ... script to update the nRF52840 SoC firmware."

   .. code-block:: console

      ./scripts/fota.py -id urn:imei:351358811331351 update 2 file app_update52.bin

>    Please replace the `urn:imei:...` with your device ID from the above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Replace `urn:imei:...` with your device ID from (where?).
```

      [INFO] coiote.py - Creating fota resource for binary app_update52.bin with id lwm2m_client_fota_instance_2
      [INFO] fota.py - Init setup for instance 2 firmware Update resource:lwm2m_client_fota_instance_2
      [INFO] fota.py - Start Firmware Update
      [INFO] fota.py - Delete Observation Multicomponent Firmware Update
      [WARNING] coiote.py - Coiote: Path 'Multicomponent Firmware Update' was not observed
      [INFO] fota.py - Write Fota Download url to Multicomponent Firmware Update.2.Package URI
      [INFO] coiote.py - Device is Queuemode Coiote have to wait next Registration Update
      [INFO] fota.py - Download Url Write done
      [INFO] fota.py - Enable Observation Multicomponent Firmware Update
      [INFO] fota.py - Downloading instance: 2
      [INFO] fota.py - Download ready instance: 2
      [INFO] coiote.py - Device is Queuemode Coiote have to wait next Registration Update
      [INFO] fota.py - Firmware Update Successfully instance: 2
      [INFO] fota.py - From: to
      [INFO] fota.py - Firmware update process finished
      [INFO] fota.py - Delete Observation Multicomponent Firmware Update

> #. Call `mcuboot` shell command on nRF52840 terminal tor validate updated image version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Call the ``mcuboot`` shell command on the terminal to validate the updated image version on the nRF52840 SoC:
```

      <inf> board_control: nrf_interface_pins_0_2_routing is disabled
      <inf> board_control: nrf_interface_pins_3_5_routing is disabled
      <inf> board_control: nrf_interface_pins_6_8_routing is disabled
      <inf> board_control: nrf_interface_pin_9_routing is ENABLED
      <inf> board_control: io_expander_pins_routing is disabled
      <inf> board_control: external_flash_pins_routing is ENABLED
      <inf> board_control: Board configured.
      *** Booting Zephyr OS build v3.3.99-ncs1-2938-gc7094146b5b4 ***
      <inf> app_smp_svr: Booting image: build time: Sep  4 2023 10:38:09
      <inf> app_smp_svr: Image Version 1.1.0-0
      <inf> app_smp_svr: Image is not confirmed OK
      <inf> app_smp_svr: Marked image as OK
      uart:~$ mcuboot
      swap type: none
      confirmed: 1

      primary area (2):
        version: 1.1.0+0
        image size: 70136
        magic: good
        swap type: test
        copy done: set
        image ok: set

      secondary area (5):
        version: 1.0.0+0
        image size: 70136
        magic: unset
        swap type: none
        copy done: unset
        image ok: unset
      uart:~$

>    As seen above, MCUBoot have swapped running image to version 1.1.0 and the previous image is now on the secondary slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   MCUBoot has now swapped the running image to version 1.1.0 and the previous image is on the secondary slot.
```

.. _lwm2m_client_fota_external_mcu:

Evaluating LwM2M Advanced Firmware Update for external MCU
##########################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This page describes how to evaluate FOTA to external MCU using LwM2M with Advanced Firmware Update object on the nRF9160DK.

> Connecting chips

Author: I change to SoCs

   .. code-block:: console

      west build
      cp build/zephyr/app_update.bin ../lwm2m_client/app_update52.bin
      cd ..

#. Open a terminal connection for the nRF52840 SoC (VCOM1), in Linux ``/dev/ttyACM1``, and call the ``mcuboot`` command on the shell.

   .. code-block:: console

      uart:~$ mcuboot
      swap type: none
      confirmed: 1

      primary area (2):
         version: 1.0.0+0
         image size: 70136
         magic: unset
         swap type: none
         copy done: unset
         image ok: unset

      failed to read secondary area (5) header: -5
      uart:~$

#. Register your nRF9160 DK with the Coiote Device management server, see :ref:`notifications_setup_lwm2m`.
#. Build and flash the :ref:`lwm2m_client` sample:

   Make sure the **PROG/DEBUG** switch is set to **nRF91**.

   .. code-block:: console

      cd lwm2m_client/
      west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay"
      west flash --erase

> #. Wait for the device registration to complete.

Author: after flash device start register to Coiote so it is after build and flash

.. _lwm2m_client_fota_external_mcu:

Evaluating LwM2M Advanced Firmware Update for external MCU
##########################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This page describes how to evaluate FOTA to external MCU using LwM2M with Advanced Firmware Update object on the nRF9160 DK.

Connecting SoCs
***************

On the nRF9160 DK, you can configure the hardware interface between the nRF9160 and nRF52840 SoCs to use serial connection.
In this sample, the nRF9160 SoC uses UART2 and nRF52840 SoC uses UART1.

> The reset line is needed for activating MCUBoot recovery mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reset line is needed for activating MCUboot recovery mode.
```

.. code-block:: console

   /*
      | nRF9160 SoC |                            | nRF52840 SoC   |
      | UART 2      |                            | UART1          |
      | RTS   P0.17 | -- nRF interface line 0 -- | P0.17  CTS     |
      |       P0.18 | -- nRF interface line 1 -- | P0.20          |
      |       P0.19 | -- nRF interface line 2 -- | P0.15          |
      | RX    P0.21 | -- nRF interface line 3 -- | P0.22  TX      |
      | CTS   P0.22 | -- nRF interface line 4 -- | P1.04  RTS     |
      | TX    P0.23 | -- nRF interface line 5 -- | P1.02  RX      |
      |       COEX0 | -- nRF interface line 6 -- | P1.13          |
      |       COEX1 | -- nRF interface line 7 -- | P1.11          |
      |       COEX2 | -- nRF interface line 8 -- | P1.15          |
      |       P0.24 | -- nRF interface line 9 -- | P0.18 (nRESET) | (in v0.14.0 or later)
   */

> SMP and MCUmgr protocols are used for communicating the UART.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SMP and MCUmgr protocols are used for communicating over UART.
```

-------------

The sample supports UART2 connection on the nRF9160 SoC to onboard the nRF52840 SoC with or without MCUBoot recovery mode.
The nRF9160 SoC needs to enable UART2 on the devicetree using the following configuration files and recovery mode overlay files:

* The :file:`overlay-mcumgr_client.conf` file defines the configuration for external FOTA client.
  This requires an additional devicetree overlay file :file:`nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay`.
* The :file:`overlay-mcumgr_reset.conf` file enables MCUBoot recovery mode.
  This requires an additional devicetree overlay file :file:`nrf9160dk_recovery.overlay`.

To enable the experimental Advanced Firmware Update object for the external FOTA, use the following overlay configuration files:

* The :file:`overlay-adv-firmware.conf` file enables the experimental Advanced Firmware Update object.
* The :file:`overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf` file enables the LwM2M version 1.1.

You also need one of the following `Coiote Device Management`_ server configurations:

* The :file:`overlay-avsystem.conf` file for the `Coiote Device Management`_ server.
* The :file:`overlay-avsystem-bootstrap.conf` for Coiote in bootstrap mode.

> Build for MCUBoot recovery mode with bootstrap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build for MCUboot recovery mode with bootstrap
```

----------------------------------------------

> To build for MCUBoot recovery mode with bootstrap, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build for MCUboot recovery mode with bootstrap, use the following command:
```

.. code-block:: console

   west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem-bootstrap.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf; overlay-mcumgr_reset.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay;nrf9160dk_recovery.overlay"

> Build for MCUBoot recovery mode without bootstrap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build for MCUboot recovery mode without bootstrap
```

-------------------------------------------------

> To build for MCUBoot recovery mode without bootstrap, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build for MCUboot recovery mode without bootstrap, use the following command:
```

.. code-block:: console

   west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf; overlay-mcumgr_reset.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay;nrf9160dk_recovery.overlay"

Build for generic MCUmgr client with bootstrap
----------------------------------------------

> To build for Generic MCUmgr client with bootstrap, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build for generic MCUmgr client with bootstrap, use the following command:
```

Author: I remove generic away just MCUmg client

.. code-block:: console

   west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem-bootstrap.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay"

Build for generic MCUmgr client without bootstrap
-------------------------------------------------

> To build for Generic MCUmgr client without bootstrap, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build for generic MCUmgr client without bootstrap, use the following command:
```

Author: same here

.. code-block:: console

   west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay"

nRF52840 configuration
======================

> The :ref:`smp_svr` sample is a reference implementation that uses MCUBoot recovery mode or serial SMP server mode to allow image update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :ref:`smp_svr` sample is a reference implementation that uses MCUboot recovery mode or serial SMP server mode to allow image update.
```

Building
********

> To build with the sample for MCUBoot recovery mode, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build with the sample for MCUboot recovery mode, use the following command:
```

To build with the sample for native serial MCUMgr server for UART1, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   west build --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf52840 -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-serial.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_nrf52840_mcumgr_srv.overlay"

Verifying image update
======================

The following flow uses generic MCUmgr client mode and Coiote without bootstrap.

#. To set up the :file:`/scripts/fota.py` script, use the same username and password that you used for AVSystem's `Coiote Device Management server`_

   .. code-block:: console

      # Setup phase
      export COIOTE_PASSWD='my-password'
      export COIOTE_USER='my-username'

#. Build the :ref:`smp_svr` sample and flash it to the nRF9160 DK:

   Make sure the **PROG/DEBUG** switch is set to the **nRF52**.

   .. code-block:: console

      cd samples/cellular/smp_svr/
      west build --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf52840 -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-serial.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_nrf52840_mcumgr_srv.overlay"
      west flash --erase

#. Open the :file:`prj.conf` file.

> #. Change :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMAGE_VERSION` to ``1.1.0``.

Reviewer 2: *CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMGTOOL_SIGN_VERSION

   .. code-block:: console

      uart:~$ mcuboot
      swap type: none
      confirmed: 1

      primary area (2):
         version: 1.0.0+0
         image size: 70136
         magic: unset
         swap type: none
         copy done: unset
         image ok: unset

      failed to read secondary area (5) header: -5
      uart:~$

#. Register your nRF9160 DK with the Coiote Device management server, see :ref:`ug_avsystem`.
#. Build and flash the :ref:`lwm2m_client` sample:

   Make sure the **PROG/DEBUG** switch is set to **nRF91**.

   .. code-block:: console

      cd lwm2m_client/
      west build  --pristine -b nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns --  -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-adv-firmware.conf;overlay-fota_helper.conf;overlay-avsystem.conf;overlay-lwm2m-1.1.conf;overlay-mcumgr_client.conf" -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE="nrf9160dk_mcumgr_client_uart2.overlay"
      west flash --erase

#. Wait for the device registration to complete.
#. Use the :file:`/scripts/fota.py` script to update the nRF52840 SoC firmware.

   .. code-block:: console

      ./scripts/fota.py -id urn:imei:351358811331351 update 2 file app_update52.bin

>    Replace the `urn:imei:...` with your device IMEI from the above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Replace the ``urn:imei:...`` with your device IMEI from above.
```
